# Statement

## Research Interests

Holding the dream of liberating human beings of involuntary labor, I have the aspiration of research in robot manipulation and application of it to help work.

Scientific research has reached such a great achievement at present, however, human beings do not fully utilize it and apply them in applications contributing to the general public. From my previous experience, I would highlight the following factors. Prototype tools become more convenient and effective, of which researchers may not be aware. Products lack consideration in human-centered design and markets. Non-open source environment impedes the development of commercial products. I would like to learn knowledge in related areas before entering my career in robotics.

Compared with completely virtual artificial intelligence, concrete actuators, robots give me more belief to be applied in the real world and replace human workers. Also, I have a natural propensity for robots emerging from my experience in sci-fi works. The reliable and devoted robots depicted in gold-age science fictions always stir my heart.

## Former Experiences

When I went into college, I was confused about what I was supposed to do in future until summer 2017, when I seized the opportunity of an electrical design competition, where I got in touch with the Arduino platform and made a Snake game controlled by a joystick. Digital prototype tools can make your ideas into being easily, I realized. Motivated by my desire of getting more hands-on experience on developing digital hardware, I transferred my major to Automation, as well as minored in Technology Innovation & Entrepreneurship (TIE) on Connected Devices.

In Spring 2018, I joined the Tsinghua-A iGEM team, where I found that digital prototypes signifies in real application of a wide range of subjects, while some researchers may not be aware(or just don't have the interest). As my teammates and I agreed on our objective, we plunged into inventing a tangible product instead of presenting pure modeling results. I came up with the idea that a simple electronic gadget with appropriate hardware design is adequate for rough detection of allergy. Based on background knowledge in informatics about the emission and reception of fluorescence, we developed a portable device to conduct automatic in-vitro allergy tests, which is expensive and inconvenient in hospitals. I was responsible for all the hardware implementation, applying CAD tools to construct 3D models for smart hardware, and using 3D printing to make a supporting shell. Our groundbreaking work was awarded a Gold Medal.

To further explore the design and development of intelligent hardware, I actively gathered a group and signed up for the 2019 China-US Young Maker Competition. Aiming to promote the digital entertainment life of the arm-disabled group, I proposed an interactive footroller system attached with smart devices to recognize foot gestures.  We first designed the interactive rules to transform foot gestures to system instructions, and then I implemented the hardware system on our prototype to capture the motion data, and a Python program to analyze the gestures and map to operation. Our design is reiterated as we learn more minor courses. Finally, we took the Chrome Dinosaur Game to illustrate how to manipulate the little T-Rex with the player’s feet. I believe our product is a paradigm of providing humanistic care to the disadvantaged group.

Meanwhile, courses in my minor also shaped my perception of production and entrepreneurship. Through co-authoring industry analytic reports in Global Industry and Technology Strategy, I was acquainted with tools like Git, Wiki, and acquired a global vision about innovative electronic products, from which, more importantly, I saw that a simple prototype can not survive without high-barrier technology or well human-centered design. In Modern Human Factors, it is showed that knowledge about developmental rules which most engineers overlook but are essential for user experience, and skills of writing patents and thinking of an entrepreneur was taught in Entrepreneurship Training.

Yearning for an opportunity to program and operate a real robot, in Autumn 2018, I participated in a Tsinghua Student Research Training project called Baxter development platform based on Robot Operating System (ROS). With no preceding experience on the Baxter robot, I quickly self-learned the fundamentals of ROS via online resources and wrote a manual for later users with my partners. Then we developed two interactive projects for demonstration with Baxter: interactive gobang playing based on image processing and robot manipulation, and pose imitation based on skeletal recognition and pose mapping. Our projects were presented on school day and attracted a considerable number of audience, reinforcing my confidence and determination to put my career in robotics.

Eager to experience the life of a real robotics engineer, I took an internship in Aqrose, a robotic company in summer 2019. Unlike things in college, commercial products are always not open to users, which pose great obstacles to innovative applications. Additional efforts need to be paid to use them safely, and one of them is what I did to avoid collision results from the 'grey'-box of the Fanuc robot trajectory planner. I did literature reviews and surveys on planning algorithms, during which I was amazed by the fascinating thoughts beneath them, and eventually adapted Batched Informed Trees(BIT*) algorithm to provide trajectory points, doubling the average clearance within the same planning time. 

My past three year’s exposure in robotics has granted me the confidence to apply for a graduate program. I have mastered essential tools for hardware design, manufacture and robot manipulation. Meanwhile, guided by my curiosity, I am always willing to dive into interdisciplinary knowledge and enhance my comprehensive abilities. I also honed my communication and my scientific writing skills by composing summaries and holding group meetings. More importantly, my keen interest in robotics will definitely support me no matter how many challenges I meet. I acquired a great sense of accomplishment every time when we turned blueprints into concrete, and I could feel its growth when we built our prototypes from the ground up, as if we were raising our own children.